So we now had some basic work with expressjs
.
now let's also dig into the internals of expressjs, at least a little bit. Here is the expressjs
code repository on github,
it's open source so you can dive into the code and no worries, we'll not do a deep dive analysis
but it's interesting to see how some things work.
So in there on that github repo, click on lib and then you'll find a response.js file, now click
on it, in that file you will find a lot of code.
Now let's simply search for send and then an opening bracket and you will see how the send function,
so basically a function we are calling here, how this is defined internally and this helps us understand
it
and this by the way is always a great technique if you want to see what something does behind the scenes.
and if you need to do something yourself, for example set some header or if that is done for you and
we had that default header of text html
right,
so let's see what send does internally.
It does a bunch of checks to see if we're using outdated versions of that function which we didn't
in this course so let's ignore that and then down there, it basically analyzes what kind of data you
are sending
and you see that if it's a string data, so some text as we are doing it here, that in this case it sets
the content type to
html but only if we haven't set it yet.
So it checks if the content type header is not present yet in which case it sets it, otherwise it would
leave our default. If we have other values like a number, a boolean and so on,
it would actually set it to binary or json data.
So this is just some of the internal things it does
and you don't need to go through the entire code here,
it's a bit much and you're using express so that you don't have to do everything on your own but diving
into this can help sometimes.
Now one other interesting thing to see is that we can actually also shorten this code here where we
set up the server.
We can pass app to that create server method
but instead we can also just use app and call listen
and this will do both these things for us, something we can see in the official code
if you go into the application.js file. In there what we can see is that if we search for listen
here, the listen function in the end just does the two things we did before, it calls http create server and passes
itself,
so the app object which we previously also passed to that passes it to create server and then this in
the end just make sure that listen gets called on that server object.
So it internally does the same we
did here and this of course save some code
and now we can also remove that http import up there.
So now our code looks like this and we'll still work fine,
it restarts here
and if I reload this page, this is looking good to me.
So now we're using expressjs and you hopefully get a basic understanding of what it's doing and why
this helps you write cleaner code because now you have a clearly fine structure,
use this middleware funnel and you save code.
The question of course is how can we now handle different routes as we previously did where we had slash
message and slash nothing and so on
and of course it would be nice if we now could also read incoming requests in an easier way.
Well we'll do both and see both over the next lectures.